docs: Update overview for Mesa 3.0 (#2317)
projectmesa/mesa: docs/overview.md

Mesa is modular, meaning that its modeling, analysis and visualization components are kept separate but intended to work together. The modules are grouped into three categories:

> 1. **Modeling:** Modules used to build the models themselves: a model and agent classes, space for them to move around on, and built-in functionality for managing agents.

Reviewer: formulation is strange. You shift from modules to classes.

Also, agents move _in_ a space not _on_ a space.

Author: Something like this?
```suggestion
1. **Modeling:** Classes used to build the models themselves: a model and agent classes, space for them to move around in, and built-in functionality for managing agents.
```
I didn't want to make too much changes, but I agree it's formulated a bit strangely. If you have specific suggestion please make them! (using the ```suggestion``` syntax).

@jackiekazil @tpike3 maybe one of you have an opinion here from the (original) Mesa conceptual design.

2. **Analysis:** Tools to collect data generated from your model, or to run it multiple times with different parameter values.
3. **Visualization:** Classes to create and launch an interactive model visualization, using a browser-based interface.

### Modeling modules

> Most models consist of one class to represent the model itself and one or more classes for agents. Mesa provides built-in functionality for managing agents and their interactions. These are implemented in Mesa's modeling modules:

Reviewer 2: There is no Mesa protocol for agent interactions yet. In NetLogo, you can send a message to another agent:
```
to send-message-to-specific-turtle
  ask turtle 0 [
    ask turtle 1 [
      set my-message "This is a direct message from turtle 0!"
    ]
  ]
  ask turtle 1 [ show my-message ]
end
```

Author: Okay, what should I change exactly?

Reviewer 3: I recommend leaving it as, by default agents have to interact, (e.g. in the boltzmann wealth model they are randomly interacting with the exchange of money) it just may not be as explicit as asking another agent what to do.

Reviewer 2: I'd say to remove the claim that Mesa has functionality for agent interaction. You can do it in the Boltzmann wealth model, but it is *not provided by Mesa*.

Reviewer: I am sorry, but I fail to understand the problem here. Interaction is a defining feature of ABMs. It seems that @rht equates interaction with messages, but I fail to see this link. Take predator-prey: a wolf moves towards where sheep are. This is interaction. Or Schelling segregation: an agent moves based on the "color" of its neighbors and moves towards an empty spot (determined by which other agents occupy cells). These are all examples of interaction, none requiring a message system.

Reviewer 2: You could say that explicit communication via messaging is a subset of "interaction", but even so, in none of the wolf-sheep or Schelling the interaction is specified in Mesa. Rather, it is specified by the user in Python, with various ways of doing it, not dictated by the library. On the other hand, Mesa has an opinion of how you should manage your agents, i.e. via `AgentSet`.

Reviewer: I beg to differ: in both Schelling and Wolf-Sheep the MESA provided spaces that structure the interaction. Moreover, to interact with other agents, an agent will use the model or a space to find the other agent.

Reviewer 2: That would be interaction of the agents *with their environment*. The sentence could be intentionally not specific about the details, but direct interaction with other agents via messaging is not covered nor dictated by Mesa at the moment.

Reviewer 2: And I do intend to integrate https://github.com/ox-inet-resilience/py-economicsl into Mesa at some point in the future for agent messaging and inbox system.

import mesa

class MyAgent(mesa.Agent):
    def __init__(self, model, age):
        super().__init__(model)
        self.age = age

    def step(self):
        self.age += 1
        print(f"Agent {self.unique_id} now is {self.age} years old")
        # Whatever else the agent does when activated

class MyModel(mesa.Model):
    def __init__(self, n_agents):
        super().__init__()

>         self.grid = mesa.space.MultiGrid(10, 10, torus=True)

Reviewer: given the desire to switch to new experimental spaces, do we want to use an old space here?

Author: Let's discuss integration of the cell spaces in the next dev call.

        for _ in range(n_agents):

>             new_age = self.random.randint(0, 80)

Reviewer 2: `initial_age` makes more sense.

Author: Agreed
```suggestion
            initial_age = self.random.randint(0, 80)
```

>             a = MyAgent(self, new_age)

Author: ```suggestion
            a = MyAgent(self, initial_age)
```

model.step()
```

You should see agents 1-5, activated in random order. See the [tutorial](tutorials/intro_tutorial) or API documentation for more detail on how to add model functionality.

To bootstrap a new model install mesa and run `mesa startproject`

### AgentSet and model.agents

> Mesa 3.0 introduces the AgentSet class and the `model.agents` attribute, providing powerful tools for managing agents.

Reviewer: technically not true because agentset has been around for a while. Perhaps change to something like

Mesa 3.0 makes `model.agents` and the `AgentSet` class central in managing and activating agents.

Author: ```suggestion
Mesa 3.0 makes `model.agents` and the AgentSet class central in managing and activating agents.
```
Good suggestion, agreed!

#### model.agents
`model.agents` is an AgentSet containing all agents in the model. It's automatically updated when agents are added or removed:

```python
# Get total number of agents
num_agents = len(model.agents)

# Iterate over all agents
for agent in model.agents:
    print(agent.unique_id)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This would be a place to tell user how to access a single agent from `model.agents`. A sentence with a `model.agents[5]` should be enough.

Author: But then you get the 5th agent in the AgentSet. As soon as you shuffle or sort or have multiple agent types this isn't necessarily the agent with unique_id 5 anymore.

It actually never is, since slicing starts at 0 and unique_id at 1.

Reviewer 3: can you just the the agent get function specifying the unique_id?

Author: The current way to do this would be:
```Python
model.agents.select(lambda agent: agent.unique_id == 1)[0]
```
Note that the `[0]` converts is from an AgentSet to a single Agent.

It's far from ideal.

I have been pondering this problem for a while. Ideally I would be able to do something like:
```Python
model.agents.select(unique_id>5 and wealth==0)
```
But I haven't found an elegant solution for this.

Reviewer 2: I find `__getitem__` by unique ID more stable and useful than by integer index. The pandas iloc equivalent of the indices gives an illusion of ordering among the agents, which shouldn't be the case. If `__getitem__` becomes `def __getitem__(self, unique_id): return self._agents[unique_id]` as the default, it would simplify the documentation here.

Author: Let’s continue this discussion in
- https://github.com/projectmesa/mesa/issues/2316

Reviewer: I don't think this is a good place to discuss this idea. I also just note that I object fundamentally to this. It brakes the Sequence protocol. 

In my view, the only defendable use case of `unique_id` is in data collection. I see no other reason for a user to bother with it at all.

#### AgentSet Functionality
AgentSet offers several methods for efficient agent management:

1. **Selecting**: Filter agents based on criteria.
   ```python
   high_energy_agents = model.agents.select(lambda a: a.energy > 50)
   ```
2. **Shuffling and Sorting**: Randomize or order agents.
   ```python
   shuffled_agents = model.agents.shuffle()
   sorted_agents = model.agents.sort(key="energy", ascending=False)
   ```
3. **Applying methods**: Execute methods on all agents.
   ```python
   model.agents.do("step")
   model.agents.shuffle_do("move")  # Shuffle then apply method
   ```
4. **Aggregating**: Compute aggregate values across agents.
   ```python
   avg_energy = model.agents.agg("energy", func=np.mean)
   ```
5. **Grouping**: Group agents by attributes.
   ```python

>    grouped_agents = model.agents.groupby("species")

Reviewer: you might want to expand this a bit to explain how you can use `grouped_agents`

Author: Yeah I was in doubt on that. On the one hand it would be useful, on the other hand this is a short overview.

Reviewer: I would add something like

```python

for _, agent_group in grouped_agents:
   agent_group.shuffle_do()

```

and then link to the API docs for agentset.groupby and perhaps GroupBy.

Author: Good idea, also throw an `count` and `agg` in?

```suggestion
   grouped_agents = model.agents.groupby("species")

   for _, agent_group in grouped_agents:
      agent_group.shuffle_do()
   species_counts = grouped_agents.count()
   mean_age_by_group = grouped_agents.agg("age", np.mean)
```

   ```

> `model.agents` can also be accessed within the model using `self.agents`.

Reviewer: within a model instance

Author: ```suggestion
`model.agents` can also be accessed within a model instance using `self.agents`.
```
